The first request I made, after I had obtained my liberty, was, that I might
have license to see Mildendo, the metropolis; which the emperor easily granted
me, but with a special charge to do no hurt either to the inhabitants or their
houses. The people had notice, by proclamation, of my design to visit the
town. The wall which encompassed it is two feet and a half high, and at least
eleven inches broad, so that a coach and horses may be driven very safely
round it; and it is flanked with strong towers at ten feet distance. I
stepped over the great western gate, and passed very gently, and sidling,
through the two principal streets, only in my short waistcoat, for fear of
damaging the roofs and eaves of the houses with the skirts of my coat. I
walked with the utmost circumspection, to avoid treading on any stragglers who
might remain in the streets, although the orders were very strict, that all
people should keep in their houses, at their own peril. The garret windows
and tops of houses were so crowded with spectators, that I thought in all my
travels I had not seen a more populous place. The city is an exact square,
each side of the wall being five hundred feet long. The two great streets,
which run across and divide it into four quarters, are five feet wide. The
lanes and alleys, which I could not enter, but only view them as I passed, are
from twelve to eighteen inches. The town is capable of holding five hundred
thousand souls: the houses are from three to five stories: the shops and
markets well provided.
